README.md, before:

# Checklist for a Software Management Plan

[The Software Sustainability Institute](https://www.software.ac.uk).

Sources and scripts for creating a software management plan checklist in various formats.

For more information see:

* [Software Management Plans](https://www.software.ac.uk/software-management-plans) web page on The Software Sustainability Institute web site.
* [DMPonline](http://dmponline.dcc.ac.uk/) service from [The Digital Curation Centre](https://www.dcc.ac.uk) which hosts Software Management Plan templates.

## Published versions

The Software Sustainability Institute. (2016). Checklist for a Software Management Plan. v0.1. doi:[10.5281/zenodo.1422657](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.1422657). Available online: https://www.software.ac.uk/software-management-plans. Git tag [0.1](https://github.com/softwaresaved/software-management-plans/releases/tag/0.1)

---

# Developer guide

## About these instructions

* These instructions were tested on Ubuntu 16.04.3 LTS xenial.
* Other versions of the tools may also be usable.
* Installing tools requires you to have sudo access to install and configure software (or a local system administrator to do this for you):

```bash
sudo su -
```

---

## Install dependencies

### Pandoc

Install [Pandoc](https://pandoc.org/) document converter:

```bash
sudo apt-get install pandoc
pandoc --version
```
```
pandoc 1.16.0.2
```

### wkhtmltopdf

Install [wkhtmltopdf](https://wkhtmltopdf.org/) HTML-to-PDF converter (using latest stable version, 0.12.5, for Ubuntu 16.04 Xenial, on web site):

```bash
wget https://downloads.wkhtmltopdf.org/0.12/0.12.5/wkhtmltox_0.12.5-1.xenial_amd64.deb
sudo apt install ./wkhtmltox_0.12.5-1.xenial_amd64.deb 
wkhtmltopdf  --version
```
```
wkhtmltopdf 0.12.5 (with patched qt)
```

### Python

Install [Python](https://www.python.org/)

* If you already have Python you can skip this step. If you don't have Python then we recommend [Miniconda Python](https://conda.io/miniconda.html).
* Either Python 2.7+ or Python 3.6+ can be used.

**Miniconda Python 2.7**

```bash
wget https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda2-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh -O miniconda2.sh
bash miniconda2.sh -b -p $HOME/miniconda2
```

Set environment and check:

```bash
source $HOME/miniconda2/bin/activate
python -V
```
```
Python 2.7.15 :: Anaconda, Inc.
```

**Miniconda Python 3.6**

```bash
wget https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh -O miniconda3.sh
bash miniconda3.sh -b -p $HOME/miniconda3
```

Set environment and check:


```bash
source $HOME/miniconda3/bin/activate
python -V
```
```
Python 3.6.5 :: Anaconda, Inc.
```

### pyyaml

Install [pyyaml](https://pyyaml.org/):

* If you have Anaconda Python you can skip this step.

```bash
pip install pyyaml
```

### Microsoft TrueType core fonts:

Install Microsoft TrueType core fonts:

```bash
apt-get install ttf-mscorefonts-installer
```

### linkchecker

Install [linkchecker](https://github.com/linkchecker/linkchecker) 9.4:

```bash
wget https://github.com/linkchecker/linkchecker/archive/v9.4.0.tar.gz
tar -xf v9.4.0.tar.gz 
cd linkchecker-9.4.0/
pip install -r requirements.txt 
python setup.py install
linkchecker -V
```
```
LinkChecker 9.4.0 released xx.xx.xxxx
Copyright (C) 2000-2014 Bastian Kleineidam
```

---

## Create Markdown checklist

Run:

```bash
make markdown
```

This will process the files in `data/` and create a Markdown checklist in `build/markdown/`.

---

## Create HTML checklist

Run:

```bash
make html
```

This will create a Markdown checklist, as above, then convert this into an HTML checklist in `build/html/`.

---

## Check links

Run:

```bash
make check-links
```

This will display broken links, if any.

If you see an error e.g.

```
Makefile:66: recipe for target 'check-links' failed
make: [check-links] Error 1 (ignored)
```

then this can be ignored (an error code of 1 means that the `linkchecker` program encountered one or more broken links).

A full report is created in `build/link-check.txt`.

**Beware:** Certain links may be identified as broken when they in fact exist. See the Linkchecker FAQ, [Q:I still get an error, but the page is definitely ok](https://wummel.github.io/linkchecker/faq.html).

---

## Create PDF checklist

Run:

```bash
make pdf
```

This will create an HTML checklist, as above, then convert this into a PDF checklist in `build/pdf/`.

**Troubleshooting**

If you see an error like:

```
terminate called after throwing an instance of 'std::bad_alloc'Page 2 of 5
  what():  std::bad_alloc
Makefile:57: recipe for target 'build/pdf/<FILENAME>.pdf' failed
make: *** [build/pdf/<FILENAME>.pdf] Aborted (core dumped)
make: *** Deleting file 'build/pdf/<FILENAME>.pdf'
```

then it may be that one or more image files used in the guide are too big and causing `wkhtmltopdf`, which creates PDFs, to run out of memory. Try resizing the images and try again.

---

## Deposit in Zenodo (sample metadata, for information only)

Zenodo metadata:

* Communities: Zenodo
* Upload type: Publication (for guides), Software (for source)
* Publication type: Working paper
* Click Digital Object Identifier => Reserve DOI
* Publication date: YYYY-MM-DD
* Title:
* Authors: 
* Description:
* Version: X.Y
* Keywords:
  - research software
  - research outputs
  - software management plan
  - software sustainability
  - software sustainability institute
* Additional notes: The Software Sustainability Institute is supported by EPSRC grant EP/H043160/1 and EPSRC/BBSRC and ESRC grant EP/N006410/1.
* Funding: delete default entry.

---

# Contributing

See [Contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

---

# Copyright and Licence

Copyright (c) 2014-2018, The University of Edinburgh

* Guidance (in `markdown/` directory): Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
* Source code: Apache License, Version 2.0, January 2004

For full details, see [LICENCE](./LICENCE).

The Software Sustainability Institute provides the checklist on an "as-is" basis, makes no warranties regarding any information provided within and disclaims liability for damages resulting from using this information. You are solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of any advice and guidance provided and assume any risks associated with your use of this advice and guidance. If you have any questions regarding the right licence for your code or any other legal issues relating to it, consult with a professional for advice relating to your individual circumstances.

---

## Acknowledgements

The checklist has its origins in:

Chue Hong, Neil (2014) "Writing and using a software management plan", The Software Sustainability Institute [http://www.software.ac.uk/resources/guides/software-management-plans](http://www.software.ac.uk/resources/guides/software-management-plans).

The checklist has evolved in response to feedback from: Mario Antonioletti, Neil Chue Hong, Steve Crouch, Carole Goble, John Robinson, The Software Sustainability Institute; Peter Cock, The James Hutton Institute; Robert Davey, The Genome Analysis Centre; Mark Plumbley, Centre for Vision, Speech and signal Processing, University of Surrey; Chris Rawlings, Rothamsted Research.

We also acknowledge the valuable assistance and generosity of [The Digital Curation Centre](http://www.dcc.ac.uk), particularly Sarah Jones and Marta Ribeiro, in supporting the writing of of software management plans within [DMPonline](http://dmponline.dcc.ac.uk/).

Commit message:

Removed need for header.md, all metadata specified in checklist.yaml and pandoc Markdown header created from this metadata

README.md, after:

# Checklist for a Software Management Plan

[The Software Sustainability Institute](https://www.software.ac.uk).

Sources and scripts for creating a software management plan checklist in various formats.

For more information see:

* [Software Management Plans](https://www.software.ac.uk/software-management-plans) web page on The Software Sustainability Institute web site.
* [DMPonline](http://dmponline.dcc.ac.uk/) service from [The Digital Curation Centre](https://www.dcc.ac.uk) which hosts Software Management Plan templates.

## Published versions

The Software Sustainability Institute. (2016). Checklist for a Software Management Plan. v0.1. doi:[10.5281/zenodo.1422657](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.1422657). Available online: https://www.software.ac.uk/software-management-plans. Git tag [0.1](https://github.com/softwaresaved/software-management-plans/releases/tag/0.1)

---

# Developer guide

## About these instructions

* These instructions were tested on Ubuntu 16.04.3 LTS xenial.
* Other versions of the tools may also be usable.
* Installing tools requires you to have sudo access to install and configure software (or a local system administrator to do this for you):

```bash
sudo su -
```

---

## Install dependencies

### Pandoc

Install [Pandoc](https://pandoc.org/) document converter:

```bash
sudo apt-get install pandoc
pandoc --version
```
```
pandoc 1.16.0.2
```

### wkhtmltopdf

Install [wkhtmltopdf](https://wkhtmltopdf.org/) HTML-to-PDF converter (using latest stable version, 0.12.5, for Ubuntu 16.04 Xenial, on web site):

```bash
wget https://downloads.wkhtmltopdf.org/0.12/0.12.5/wkhtmltox_0.12.5-1.xenial_amd64.deb
sudo apt install ./wkhtmltox_0.12.5-1.xenial_amd64.deb 
wkhtmltopdf  --version
```
```
wkhtmltopdf 0.12.5 (with patched qt)
```

### Python

Install [Python](https://www.python.org/)

* If you already have Python you can skip this step. If you don't have Python then we recommend [Miniconda Python](https://conda.io/miniconda.html).
* Either Python 2.7+ or Python 3.6+ can be used.

**Miniconda Python 2.7**

```bash
wget https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda2-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh -O miniconda2.sh
bash miniconda2.sh -b -p $HOME/miniconda2
```

Set environment and check:

```bash
source $HOME/miniconda2/bin/activate
python -V
```
```
Python 2.7.15 :: Anaconda, Inc.
```

**Miniconda Python 3.6**

```bash
wget https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh -O miniconda3.sh
bash miniconda3.sh -b -p $HOME/miniconda3
```

Set environment and check:


```bash
source $HOME/miniconda3/bin/activate
python -V
```
```
Python 3.6.5 :: Anaconda, Inc.
```

### pyyaml

Install [pyyaml](https://pyyaml.org/):

* If you have Anaconda Python you can skip this step.

```bash
pip install pyyaml
```

### Microsoft TrueType core fonts:

Install Microsoft TrueType core fonts:

```bash
apt-get install ttf-mscorefonts-installer
```

### linkchecker

Install [linkchecker](https://github.com/linkchecker/linkchecker) 9.4:

```bash
wget https://github.com/linkchecker/linkchecker/archive/v9.4.0.tar.gz
tar -xf v9.4.0.tar.gz 
cd linkchecker-9.4.0/
pip install -r requirements.txt 
python setup.py install
linkchecker -V
```
```
LinkChecker 9.4.0 released xx.xx.xxxx
Copyright (C) 2000-2014 Bastian Kleineidam
```

---

## Create Markdown checklist

Run:

```bash
make markdown
```

This will process the files in `data/` and create a Markdown checklist in `build/markdown/`.

---

## Create HTML checklist

Run:

```bash
make html
```

This will create a Markdown checklist, as above, then convert this into an HTML checklist in `build/html/`.

---

## Check links

Run:

```bash
make check-links
```

This will display broken links, if any.

If you see an error e.g.

```
Makefile:66: recipe for target 'check-links' failed
make: [check-links] Error 1 (ignored)
```

then this can be ignored (an error code of 1 means that the `linkchecker` program encountered one or more broken links).

A full report is created in `build/link-check.txt`.

**Beware:** Certain links may be identified as broken when they in fact exist. See the Linkchecker FAQ, [Q:I still get an error, but the page is definitely ok](https://wummel.github.io/linkchecker/faq.html).

---

## Create PDF checklist

Run:

```bash
make pdf
```

This will create an HTML checklist, as above, then convert this into a PDF checklist in `build/pdf/`.

**Troubleshooting**

If you see an error like:

```
terminate called after throwing an instance of 'std::bad_alloc'Page 2 of 5
  what():  std::bad_alloc
Makefile:57: recipe for target 'build/pdf/<FILENAME>.pdf' failed
make: *** [build/pdf/<FILENAME>.pdf] Aborted (core dumped)
make: *** Deleting file 'build/pdf/<FILENAME>.pdf'
```

then it may be that one or more image files used in the guide are too big and causing `wkhtmltopdf`, which creates PDFs, to run out of memory. Try resizing the images and try again.

---

## Create Word checklist

Run:

```bash
make docx
```

This will create a Markdown checklist, as above, then convert this into a Word checklist in `build/docx/`.

---

## Deposit in Zenodo (sample metadata, for information only)

Zenodo metadata:

* Communities: Zenodo
* Upload type: Publication (for guides), Software (for source)
* Publication type: Working paper
* Click Digital Object Identifier => Reserve DOI
* Publication date: YYYY-MM-DD
* Title:
* Authors: 
* Description:
* Version: X.Y
* Keywords:
  - research software
  - research outputs
  - software management plan
  - software sustainability
  - software sustainability institute
* Additional notes: The Software Sustainability Institute is supported by EPSRC grant EP/H043160/1 and EPSRC/BBSRC and ESRC grant EP/N006410/1.
* Funding: delete default entry.

---

# Contributing

See [Contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

---

# Copyright and Licence

Copyright (c) 2014-2018, The University of Edinburgh

* Guidance (in `markdown/` directory): Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
* Source code: Apache License, Version 2.0, January 2004

For full details, see [LICENCE](./LICENCE).

The Software Sustainability Institute provides the checklist on an "as-is" basis, makes no warranties regarding any information provided within and disclaims liability for damages resulting from using this information. You are solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of any advice and guidance provided and assume any risks associated with your use of this advice and guidance. If you have any questions regarding the right licence for your code or any other legal issues relating to it, consult with a professional for advice relating to your individual circumstances.

---

## Acknowledgements

The checklist has its origins in:

Chue Hong, Neil (2014) "Writing and using a software management plan", The Software Sustainability Institute [http://www.software.ac.uk/resources/guides/software-management-plans](http://www.software.ac.uk/resources/guides/software-management-plans).

The checklist has evolved in response to feedback from: Mario Antonioletti, Neil Chue Hong, Steve Crouch, Carole Goble, John Robinson, The Software Sustainability Institute; Peter Cock, The James Hutton Institute; Robert Davey, The Genome Analysis Centre; Mark Plumbley, Centre for Vision, Speech and signal Processing, University of Surrey; Chris Rawlings, Rothamsted Research.

We also acknowledge the valuable assistance and generosity of [The Digital Curation Centre](http://www.dcc.ac.uk), particularly Sarah Jones and Marta Ribeiro, in supporting the writing of of software management plans within [DMPonline](http://dmponline.dcc.ac.uk/).
